--- 
layout: post
title: Hurst II
tags : 🐍 💰
date: 2019-10-27 10:00:00.000000000 +01:00
description:  Final part of the calculation of the Hurst exponent
---

On another post we explained how to calculate the Hurst exponent using two different methods. 

Now we implement it.

To test the method we’ll use a time series from the Brazilian market: the mini future of the IBovespa index, hourly, from January to April, 2019. It’s available [here](https://freire.ch/img/WIN_H1_01_04.csv).

This choice is quite arbitrary, but we know that this time series *is* mean reverting.

How do we know that? A simple [ADF test](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Augmented_Dickey–Fuller_test):

```python

import statsmodels.api as stat
import statsmodels.tsa.stattools as ts
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np

win = pd.read_csv('WIN_H1_01_04.csv', sep=';')

plt.plot(win['CLOSE'])

results=ts.adfuller(win['CLOSE'], maxlag=1, regression='c', autolag=None)
print(results)
```

The results reads:

```
(-3.985491197671518, 0.0014884183818247635, 1, 794, {‚1%‘: -3.4386126789104074, ‚5%‘: -2.865186972298872, ’10%’: -2.5687119871327146})
```

That means, for the series to be mean reverting within 10% certainty, the first parameter should be more negative than `~ -2.67`, and so forth for 5% and 1%.

So we know it is mean reverting and we cant test our implementations safely.

### Calculating the Hurst exponent

The strategy is the following: calculate `Var(t)` for many `t`s and take the log on the equation `Var(t) = c*t^{2H}`. We should then have an affine equation and we are able to determine the linear coefficient, which is `2H`.

So, to calculate the Hurst exponent the first thing to do is we have to generate a set  `T`of lags `t`. They should be between two and the length of the time series `z`. So we use numpy’s `arange` which generates a set of lags between 1 and a fraction (which we choose) of the length of `z`:

```python
price = np.log(win.CLOSE)

T = np.arange(len(price)/50).astype(int)
```

The next step is to calculate the `Var(t)`. To be extra didactic I’ll make an explicit calculation for a particular `t in T`: first we have to calculate the following list (defining `price = z`)
```
|z(t) - z(0)|
|z(t+1) - z(1)|
|z(t+2) - z(2)|
…
|z(t+N) - z(N)|
```
And for this set we calculate the variance. We repeat the process for every `t in T`, thus obtaining a set `{Var(t)}_{t in T}`.

So the best tool to do this is to use [*panda’s* diff function](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.diff.html) (not numpy’s) with the argument `t in T`.

So we define `y` as follows, which is already the log of `Var(t)`:

```python
y = [np.log(price.diff(t).abs().var()) for t in T]
```

This is it. The rest of the code is merely the mechanics to get `H`, but the reasoning is over.

```python
y = np.array(y)
x = np.log(T)
x = x[np.isfinite(x)]
y = y[np.isfinite(y)]

result = np.polyfit(x,y,1)

H = result[0]/2
```

The result we get is `H ≈ 0.43`, which agrees with what we know about the series: it is *quite* mean reverting.

The jupyter's notebook of this little project can be found [here](https://github.com/freirerene/hurst).
