--- 
layout: post
title: Memes
tags : 🤷🏻‍♂️ , 🏛 , 📚
date: 2020-09-26 10:00:00.000000000 +01:00
description:  The problem of memes.
---

I have a bit of an issue with memes.

Sure, they look like these innocuous little images that kids see, collect and trade. And I’m probably just being grumpy as usual.

But not one day goes that I don’t see a political meme on twitter, polluting my feed. And I can’t help but remember that the Brazilian presidential elections were won through the use memes on the Facebook platforms and twitter. So, to my grumpy self, this can be serious stuff — because it generate thoughts.

It works like this: very few people are rational, in the sense that (most of the time/when it matters) they will use their reason to process information. Most people will process the information using their intuition. So, to quote Kahneman on Stanovich:

« *However, Stanovich argues that high intelligence does not make people immune to biases. Another ability is involved, which he labels rationality. Stanovich’s concept of a rational person is similar to what I earlier labeled “engaged.” The core of his argument is that rationality should be distinguished from intelligence. In his view, superficial or “lazy” thinking is a flaw in the reflective mind, a failure of rationality.* »

What happens when a person sees a meme is that she will take it to be true, and only after she engages with the information rationally she will be able to decide whether its true or not. 

This is a very rapid process. It doesn’t even take into account the possibility that the person might have to do some research to question a meme.

And, of course, most of the time the truth is very subtle. Until one can conjure up, let’s take a random example, the whole history of Protestant polemics and the conflicting interests and schools of thought, there is a brand new batch of memes about Jesuit conspiracy to rule the world.

Most people will not even question the meme, especially if it conforms with their prior inclinations — but still, I have (anedoctally) found that even scandalously offensive memes can pierce through one’s convictions and inclinations.

But, of course, one has to take into account that similar phenomena were occurring way back when, with pamphlets, images, slogans and whatnot. Reading [Yarvin’s](https://graymirror.substack.com) (aka Moldbug) new stuff makes me aware of this issue: if the problem is very old, then the solution is probably very complex — orders of magnitute more complex than regulating Facebook and Twitter.

